Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends
on this Vu Lan season of filial piety. With sincere devotion, Hoan Quan
wishes all Dharma friends and their
families a peaceful Vu Lan season, a
happy family, and a peaceful mind. Hoan Quan
sends his best wishes to the parents
of all
Buddhist followers. May our parents, whom we call our common
parents,
always be healthy, live
long lives, and be united in the Dharma with
all of us, becoming Dharma sisters,
practicing together in this life
and in many lifetimes,
supporting each other in our practice until the
day we attain Buddhahood. With sincere devotion, Hoan Quan bows in
gratitude to all the
parents who gave birth to Hoan Quan
and to all esteemed Buddhist followers,
allowing us to be Dharma sisters
in this Vu Lan season. May we
also follow the Buddha's vow: All
sentient beings are our parents, so that we
may rely on them
to practice and achieve the path to
enlightenment. Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Shakyamuni Buddha and we also invite our esteemed fellow practitioners to join
hands and recite the Buddha's name so that
we may enter the regular Dharma discussion session
of our Golden Chrysanthemum Club.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music] Dear esteemed fellow
practitioners,
our National Club for the practice of the Six Harmonies takes filial
piety as its foundation. Therefore, in our
Six Harmonies practice regulations, we have a
rule to care for each other's parents. If
anyone's parents are ill, the entire group will take
turns caring for them.
This is a rule for
all those participating in the
National Club
for the benefit of their parents and for our own benefit.
This rule is part of the
Bodhisattva practice, esteemed fellow practitioners.
When we approach the
parents of our fellow
practitioners, we will bring joy to them and
bring the Buddha's teachings to
them.  For you, fellow practitioners,
if your parents may have committed evil deeds in the past,
now, while ill, they can feel the
genuine sincerity
of your care and loving words. They feel
this affection from a stranger, something they may
never
have experienced in their entire lives. Therefore,
all their unwholesome thoughts
will be transformed; they will rejoice in
this wholesome heart and no
longer rejoice in evil thoughts. From there, they will love the Buddha's teachings
and love their child who
is practicing
Buddhism. Because they love their child practicing Buddhism, they
will rely on
that child, making it very
easy for you, fellow practitioners, to show filial piety to your parents. The
love we give to your parents is the karmic connection with Buddhism, allowing them to rejoice
in the Buddha's teachings.
This is a supreme karmic connection so that even
if your parents pass away, they can still find refuge in the
Buddha's teachings in the next life,
even if they are already gone in this life.  What evil deeds are there if, at
the very moment of illness and weakness, we can do
this? Then our parents will also be freed from
that karma, and their well-being will depend on the Buddha's teachings. The
Buddha taught this: the final
state of mind, the last thought, the last
joy, confirms
rebirth, dear friends. If
our final thought is directed towards a certain place, then
we will go there after death. If, at
the moment of illness, when our parents are about to
leave their physical bodies,
we allow unwholesome people
to care for them, and they only speak unwholesome words, then
our parents' hearts may be filled with anger,
conflict, love, hatred, and
discrimination. Then our parents are very likely
to enter the animal realm, dear friends.
But if our parents are joyful with
the care and love, then they
feel gratitude and affection in their
hearts. The goodness of our parents
is awakened, especially if we demonstrate it
through the feelings and gestures of caring as
Buddhists. And if some
Buddhists come together, there will be harmony, unity, and
love among them.  In a family setting, parents
should immediately shift their focus from being Buddhists to relying on the
Buddha, the
Three Jewels, and the Sangha.
This is
an extremely great benefit. If
we can do this fully, our
parents will immediately be reborn in the
human realm. That's the benefit,
dear fellow practitioners.
We established the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a club practicing the Six Harmonies
to seek ultimate enlightenment. Therefore, to seek ultimate enlightenment, we must practice filial piety.
No
one can become a Buddha while being ungrateful and unfilial, right, dear
fellow practitioners? Today, Tâm
Chiếu Hàn Quán shares with you the
topic: Why is the heart of filial
piety the heart of Buddha? Filial piety is the conduct of
Buddha. Dear fellow practitioners, filial piety
means the heart of gratitude. Filial piety means
actions of service. Therefore, filial piety is about repaying gratitude.
Filial piety is about
service.
If we don't understand
this, we won't be able to
practice filial piety.
Tâm Chiếu Hàn Quán shares this.
To my esteemed fellow practitioners:
Why must we repay our parents' kindness?
Filial piety means repaying their kindness. Why
must we repay our parents,
and what have they done for us
that we must repay them in this way? We must
repay their kindness for
raising us. So,
how should we think about repaying them? We
must understand their kindness before we can repay them. We must
understand their kindness
before we can repay them. Respectfully, my esteemed fellow practitioners,
our existence in this world is due to our
parents. If there were no parents,
we absolutely would not exist.
We only perceive a little
light, which also comes from our parents.
We hear a joyful sound, which
also comes from our parents. We
feel a cool breeze, which also comes from our parents.
We taste the flavor of
food, which also comes from our parents, isn't that right, my esteemed fellow practitioners?
Without parents, we wouldn't be here to
experience such things. You
have feelings of love and joy, which also come
from your parents. If not, what would we
do?  What we have, we
don't have to have it, esteemed fellow practitioners.
Even if we achieve success
in this life, and enjoy
every moment we call "
extremely happy," "extremely joyful," it all
stems from the nurturing love of our parents, esteemed fellow
practitioners. Have you ever
thought that way?
Without parents, absolutely not a single
trace of joy or happiness would be present.
We wouldn't have it, esteemed fellow practitioners.
Therefore, everything we have
originates from our father and
mother; nothing
we possess comes from anywhere else. Everything
begins with our
father and
mother. So, the question arises: who is responsible for
all the suffering in
my life? If my parents
didn't give birth to me, why would I
suffer? Some people ask
this: The birth of
our child is the responsibility of our parents,
while our suffering is due to
our own karmic actions, esteemed fellow practitioners.
It has nothing to do with our parents, does it? Isn't that right?
Dear fellow practitioners,
in this life, what suffering do our parents
cause us?
Our parents never chop us up to cook us, did they?
Our parents never
kill us, right?
So, all the suffering that comes to
us is due to our karma. All the happiness we experience
comes from our parents.
We say that bad
karma brings suffering, while good
karma brings
happiness. Some people think otherwise. It's true that karma brings
suffering; that's
inevitable. But what about
merit, which brings happiness?
If our parents hadn't given birth to us, would
we have experienced that happiness? We
wouldn't have.
Karma is inevitable,
and
our merit must also come from our parents, that's why
we are born. Do you
agree? We
can transform
our karma, can't we?
But we cannot create
ourselves.  Is it possible for anyone to give birth to themselves?
Where do we come from, right,
dear fellow practitioners? Who shaped our form and shape?
Therefore, everything we have is entirely
thanks to our parents, isn't that right,
dear fellow practitioners? If our parents hadn't
provided us with that place to live,
we wouldn't have settled there. How could we have settled there,
right, dear fellow practitioners?
Once we've settled there, our parents begin to nurture us,
dear fellow practitioners. That's so we understand
that our happiness
also originates from our parents. Without our
parents, we absolutely wouldn't
exist in this
world. There's this question: So,
for those who were abandoned by their mothers and
then picked up and raised by others, I
hate that mother? That's not right,
dear fellow practitioners.
That mother nurtured us for nine months
and ten days, dear fellow practitioners. That father
betrayed the mother or something like that,
but those two have sinned against
each other, but not against us, dear fellow
practitioners. Is that right? They have no
sin against us
at all.  With sufficient wisdom and insight,
we can observe fully.
So, even if we are born and then abandoned, there
is still the debt of birth and upbringing. If they didn't nurture us while we were
in the womb,
how could we grow up? If they didn't
give birth to us, how could we exist in this world?
Only those
abandoned by their parents have one debt of birth
and two debts of upbringing: one from the
mother who carried us in her womb, and one from the
mother who is growing up.
Therefore, all of us in this
world owe a debt of gratitude to
our parents for their birth and upbringing. No one in
this world is without gratitude for these two kinds of kindness. No one in this world is
without gratitude for these two efforts:
the effort of nurturing and giving birth,
and the effort of giving birth and giving up. And yet,
we can never
fully repay this debt of birth and upbringing because we cannot give birth to
our parents to fully repay it, can we? We
can nurture, but we
cannot give birth to them. But
our nurturing is...  Unlike the nurturing care
of our parents, dear fellow practitioners,
our parents carried us in their wombs for
nine months and ten days. We didn't carry them on our
backs for nine months and ten days, did we?
Our parents also carried us to bed,
took us to
eat, and shared everything
with us. Isn't that right?
A child cannot repay
this debt of gratitude in this world.
Therefore, the debt of
nurturing cannot be repaid. That's exactly why we cannot repay it.
How can we repay it?
Our parents nurtured us in this way, so every
remaining moment of our lives is
thanks to our parents. Even if we
live to be 1000 years old, that 1000 years of
our existence in this world
stems from the nurturing care of our parents, doesn't it?
Without the
nurturing care of our parents, how could we
exist for 1000 years or even a year?  Is it a year,
a day, a second, or a minute,
esteemed fellow practitioners? That's why
the debt of gratitude for giving birth and raising us is so great,
esteemed fellow practitioners. It's immense. Our parents gave birth to
us and
raised
us unconditionally, esteemed fellow practitioners.
Unconditional. Because our parents didn't
give birth to us and raise us
conditionally, meaning they made a contract with us
beforehand about what we would do before they gave birth to
us. We didn't have any contract, did we, esteemed fellow
practitioners? There were no conditions,
no conditions at all; they
just gave birth to us, accepted to raise us,
accepted to raise us, right, esteemed fellow
practitioners? Whether it's a father or a mother,
biological parents or
adoptive parents, they are all nurturing, and biological parents are all giving birth,
right, esteemed fellow practitioners?
Understanding this,
we can never think
that "mother gave birth to me, and I've repaid her
enough." Saying that is ungrateful, esteemed fellow
practitioners. It's
only when we can say
that the debt is not
enough, that's when we give it back to our parents.  Our mothers
have entered the path of liberation, dear fellow practitioners.
That's what the Buddhist scriptures teach: give
your parents faith in the Three
Jewels, know how to give alms, and abandon greed. Only then will
your parents be happy,
dear fellow practitioners. Isn't that how we repay their
kindness? If we remain in this world,
we can never repay their kindness, never
repay their kindness, dear fellow practitioners.
We must repay the debt of birth and
upbringing, and the virtue of filial piety. How can
we repay this debt of birth and upbringing?
We must have a heart of
service, dear fellow practitioners, serving our
parents. If we do not have the kindness to serve our
parents, then we are not repaying their kindness, dear fellow practitioners.
If this service is
conditional, then it is not called repaying their kindness, dear
fellow practitioners. The service in the word "filial piety"
has only one thought:
wishing for our parents to be happy and
peaceful. That is called service in the
virtue of filial piety, dear fellow practitioners. "Practice"
means actions, dear fellow practitioners, do you understand? "Practice"
means actions. Filial piety means
actions.
Filial piety, the actions of filial piety, is
about serving, serving to make one's parents happy,
to
make them peaceful,
to make them joyful. What does it mean to make one happy? It means
we must mature, we must
bring honor and a good reputation to our parents
to the best of
our ability. That means making our parents happy,
making them peaceful,
making them peaceful. In the
worldly realm, we must know how to care for them. In the realm of the
transcendent, we must help
our parents take refuge in the Three Jewels.
Only by taking refuge in the Three Jewels can
our parents find peace,
right? And to make our parents
happy, we must make the Bodhi vow
to repay our parents' kindness.
On this path to Bodhi,
we must assist our parents in
attaining liberation. That
is true filial piety, that is true filial conduct.
Therefore, it is said that a person
with filial piety is someone who knows how to repay their parents' kindness, who knows how to
serve their parents so that they may be peaceful and
happy.  My fellow practitioners,
why is it said that filial piety is the heart of the Buddha? Filial piety
is the conduct
of the Buddha. We should consider the conduct of our Buddha first,
then his heart.
His conduct was to serve sentient beings
unconditionally so that all sentient beings within
his karmic connection could attain enlightenment in the Buddha's teachings,
practice the Buddha's teachings, and reach
absolute peace and happiness.
His service to sentient beings in this way, is
n't it part of the service of filial piety? Therefore, regarding filial piety and
conduct, the Buddha is the highest, most excellent, and
greatest. So,
if
any child can practice filial piety and conduct
towards their parents in this way, it is the same filial
piety and
conduct that the Buddha
practiced.
Because we repay our parents' kindness by
serving them in every way
possible, so that they can be connected to the Three
Jewels and take refuge in the Three Jewels, and then we make the
Bodhi vow to lead them to
liberation. We are not just repaying our kindness
in one lifetime, but in
many lifetimes. Is
n't that the Bodhi conduct of the Buddha? Therefore...  It is said that filial piety
is the heart of the Buddha, and filial conduct is the conduct of the Buddha.
Therefore, from now on, we Buddhists must
know what filial piety is
and what filial conduct means. We know that from the day we
awaken the Bodhi mind and practice the Bodhi virtues,
we begin to know how to
practice filial piety. If
before we didn't know this,
if we didn't know about Buddhism, we absolutely
wouldn't know this, right? If we
don't know and don't
practice Buddhism, we will absolutely
never be able to repay our parents' kindness.
Because if we only
use worldly methods, we provide our
parents with food, drink, travel, and entertainment.
But even after our parents' karma is gone,
they still follow their karma and go wherever they want.
Therefore, we have
n't yet brought them to
absolute peace and happiness, right? We have
n't yet led them to
that path. So today, the Mind-
Illuminating Enlightenment has shared with you, dear fellow
practitioners, the understanding of the saying: Why
is filial piety the heart of the Buddha, and filial conduct is the
conduct of the Buddha?  With the heart of the temple, I hope
that this year's Vu Lan season
will see a different mindset among you, dear fellow practitioners, compared to
previous Vu Lan seasons. May you experience a
greater transformation in your consciousness,
clearly understanding what it means to
serve your parents.
Here, I, with the heart of the temple, would like to
clarify for you, dear practitioners: So,
what are you monks doing
with your parents? You
are on the path of
repaying filial
piety by guiding your parents through many lifetimes,
guiding your parents in this life to enter the
stream of liberation.
Because you monks only become monks out of filial piety, for the sake of countless sentient beings, is
n't that right, dear practitioners? This mind has
been connected from many previous lifetimes, and
only in this life has it borne fruit—becoming a
monk. What is the purpose of becoming a monk? To cultivate fields of
merit for humanity and the
heavens. That field of merit is
serving sentient beings, dear practitioners. Do you
see that?
If sentient beings in Laos joyfully bow in reverence, they have already
received merit,
right, dear practitioners?
Then our parents are immeasurable and
boundless, but at most, among those...  Those who are fortunate enough to have connections
from the heavenly realms, the human realm, and even the realms of
ghosts and animals, who do not have connections with
the teachers, all have connections to the Three Jewels
through genuine practice and sincere vows, dear fellow
practitioners. But what about a
beginner
practicing at home like this? If parents are looking
to them but they are not practicing well, then they
haven't received it yet, right, dear fellow practitioners? The
mind sees that all
those who have renounced the world and diligently practice
will have their parents gradually bestow all their blessings upon them,
dear fellow practitioners. Even someone as strong and capable
as Lady Mục Liên Thanh Đề, even after
death, still had to seek out Mục
Kiều Liên. Because that is the
only place, the only place where the child
can receive blessings, dear fellow
practitioners. Do you see?
So today we share with each other so that
we know
what we are practicing:
filial piety. That is why I have
developed the Bodhi Mind, dear fellow practitioners. Because I am
repaying my parents' kindness, I have developed the Bodhi Mind. Those who develop the Bodhi Mind and
practice the
Bodhi path are practicing filial piety,
as the Buddhas say.  Those who have practiced, dear fellow practitioners, must have spent
many lifetimes and
eons grappling with filial piety towards their parents to
have the auspicious opportunity to now
develop Bodhicitta and diligently pursue Bodhi. It's
not a single event, dear fellow
practitioners; all things
arise from countless causes and conditions. Therefore, to develop
Bodhicitta and practice
Bodhisattva deeds, one must have spent many
lifetimes agonizing over repaying their
parents' kindness and devotion. Only now do they
understand the meaning of filial piety clearly, have a clear direction,
and know the true meaning of repaying it.
It's like
we're searching for a path,
constantly asking around with
that goal in mind. We keep asking everyone we meet,
even if it's difficult,
until we finally reach the right
place and the right path. You see, dear fellow practitioners, we've put in
a lot of
effort asking around for that purpose, have
n't we? Therefore,
today we have developed Bodhicitta,
practiced Bodhisattva deeds, and are seeking Supreme
Bodhi.  Throughout many lifetimes, we
have nurtured and practiced filial piety towards our
parents, my esteemed friends.
We must understand ourselves in
this way. As for those who are just beginning to
develop this filial piety in this life, it is due to circumstances beyond our control.  There are still
many instances of filial impiety. So, it's because they
have a connection with someone who has a filial heart,
so they are able to follow them. That's
why people say some people have a direct karmic connection,
while others are simply following a
karmic connection. For example, you might have a
very wealthy friend, and you become close friends
with them, but you are very
poor. They invite
you to eat, but you don't
pay for it. It's not a direct karmic connection, do you
understand? It
's a karmic connection, but you also have a connection
to that person. Therefore,
let's move on to part two, where the
Han family will share this aspect with you.
We should contemplate whether
we have repaid filial piety in many lifetimes,
or whether we are now following the karmic
connection with virtuous teachers
to practice filial piety. But
our connection with
this virtuous teacher is also a
direct karmic connection. Those who have shown filial piety in many lifetimes will
not have the appearance of filial impiety in this life, dear fellow
practitioners. They will not have the appearance of
filial impiety,
and they will usually...  Respecting and cherishing parents, I
always wish for their happiness and
peace, without thinking of others or
myself. Dear fellow practitioners, why does the mind of the
Complete Enlightenment say this with
such certainty? Because the mind of the Complete Enlightenment stems from my
own experiences, from my own affairs.
The mind of the Complete Enlightenment affirms
to all, even in
this world, that the mind of the Complete Enlightenment deeply loves
its parents. My parents are not of
high status, not successful people, they are
very
poor, nothing is
noble, but the mind of the Complete Enlightenment deeply respects them. The mind of the
Complete Enlightenment would like to share with you, dear
fellow practitioners,
this: from the moment of
birth, from the moment the mind of the Complete Enlightenment
became
aware, from the first things I
remember, that is the image of the
love my parents gave me. The mind of the
Complete Enlightenment has
never harbored resentment towards my
parents. Resentment towards my parents is
nonexistent, never, from childhood to now, has ever
appeared in my heart. Even for the smallest things, for
example, very small things, when I was very
young and hadn't even started school yet.  I was very young,
not even old enough to go to school. My
dad took me to a conference. Back then, it was a
conference, and my dad was driving for the boss, a military
truck, the kind they
usually drive, with a long, pointed nose
like this – that's what you call a military truck.
So, when it was time to eat, I was
sitting there scooping rice with a spoon.
Then my dad came over and asked, "Do you want to
eat more?" I said, "No, I don't want to eat
anymore." So my dad took the bowl of rice I
was eating from and threw it away. At that moment, I thought to myself, "I remember
that table so clearly, I remember every action
of my dad so clearly, and I only thought
that I intended to finish this bowl of rice,
I intended to answer my dad that I wouldn't
eat any of the food around it." And
I thought to myself, "Next time
I will answer, 'I'll only finish
this bowl, I won't eat anything
else.'" And I didn't...
Is there any way to prevent my father from
doing what he wants, so that he doesn't get
emotionally affected by it? If
other children cry and demand it, then I, a
very young child who hasn't even started school yet,
remember vividly things like, for example, when I was still
asleep, my father would pee, and
then he would pee. My
father would always hug me tightly while I slept, and I would
pee like this, and then I would pee like this. When I woke up in the morning,
he would ask, "Who peed? It was me,
Dad?" I would say, "Dad peed." He would laugh.
From that day on, he would carry me
on his shoulder, and
wherever he went, I would pee on his breast. That means I
felt my
father's joy and shared in his joy. I
remember vividly
which houses he carried me to in the apartment complex.
I was so young, only about two or
two and a half years old, but I remember so clearly,
feeling my father's joy, and
from then on, I became a little child.  I always
only wanted to do things to make
my father happy, that's how happy I am, my esteemed
friends. That is, there are many things,
many things that made me, Han Quan, happy. When I went to school, I
never thought about
studying hard to get praise from my teacher, or to
become something special later on. From childhood
to adulthood, all my actions, gestures, and studies
focused on
one thought: making my parents happy, my
esteemed friends. I never thought
about myself, about what I would
become later, about making my life happy.
That thought never
crossed my mind, my esteemed friends. Because of that, I had no demands whatsoever on my parents; I only wanted to make them happy. And at home, with my siblings, it was the same. I
always chose the hardest tasks
to do, taking on the heaviest responsibilities, with
only one thought: to make my
parents
happy. I have never failed.
That mindset, and when getting married, is
also about ensuring my parents'
peace and well-being. I made a promise from the moment my
boyfriend confessed his love to me:
I made a promise to my parents that he would
never harm them, and I would do the same
to his parents.
If he even slightly insulted my parents,
we would break up. In
all matters, I would not
accept that. I apologize, dear fellow practitioners.
Regarding both sets of parents, we only
give, not receive. That is, we only give, not accept.
If we get married, we will only get married when we have
enough money; we will settle down and get
married when we have enough money. We must not accept
anything, and this is true for the entire
lives of our parents.
From the moment we learned to
earn money, we learned to
earn money from a young age, dear fellow practitioners.
That means we started working from a young age, even before going to school. It was a mix of
going to school and
working. There were three instances in a year when,
during summer vacation, my sister and I would go collect and
sell coal.  So, out here, I collect and
sell coal. Besides working
with my mother, during my breaks, I do
n't rest; I still collect coal
separately to sell, and I save that money to
pay for my sewing class and to buy clothes that meet the standards. For example,
every year my mother gives each of us two sets of
clothes, and I use that
money to buy clothes so my mother doesn't
have to buy them for me, and to pay for my school fees so my mother
doesn't have to pay for me. My sisters at
home sometimes use the money they earn to
buy their own things,
but they don't get any of that standard money.
My mindset is
particularly special like that. And after
starting a family, I always
share the finances and support my
parents. I agree with my
husband that during Tet (Lunar New Year),
he receives money, and that money is
divided between both families. I
never keep the Tet money; it's always shared
between my wife's and my husband's families. And for
all the memorial services, I have to contribute money to my
parents, making sure there's enough for the ceremony.
Sisters, whoever contributes money to their parents, their
parents will be able to use it. Besides that, there
are other issues, for example, whether it's
winter or summer, the mind-body of the practitioner
buys clothes for both sets of parents.
So, regarding filial piety, the mind-body of the
practitioner is very joyful, and
this joy will make me happy for many lifetimes.
If I am born into this world, I will do the
same because I am happy with it, I enjoy it, I enjoy
this service. So I never
stop because I like
what I do. And
this service to parents always brings joy to the mind-body of the
practitioner because the mind-body of the practitioner
voluntarily awakens to it, so I am
very happy. I also
accompany my parents in being
responsible towards my siblings in the family,
protecting
and loving them. In helping my siblings, the
mind-body of the practitioner is only for the sake of
making my parents
happy. And there are even things like
this, dear fellow practitioners, the mind-body of the practitioner, the
practitioner.  The family had four sisters and one
son. From
the age of 15 or 16,
Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán witnessed many
arguments between siblings
over the division of
property. Therefore, from then on, Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán
maintained a principle that persisted even after
family
upheavals, wielding the
most influence in the household.
Although she was the third daughter, she
always insisted that
all the siblings must comply:
all the property belonged to the
son, and the sisters received nothing. Tâm Chiếu Hoàn
Quán's
purpose in doing this was to foster a sense of
unity among the siblings from a young age,
preventing discord. Because
this arrangement pleased their parents, Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán
's actions,
from birth
to death, were
always driven by the desire to
please her parents.  My mother is happy now
that my parents have passed away. Whether
teaching the grandchildren or raising my children, I
still focus on the image of my
parents. After my parents are gone, siblings
must be harmonious with each other, love
each other as much as possible, and do their
best. Therefore, I have
never held grudges against my siblings,
and I always wish for
my children and grandchildren to always be harmonious,
loving, and supportive of each other like
siblings. That way, my mother will be happy, wo
n't she? That's how it should be. My
heart is always focused
on
filial piety. Therefore, I know that
I have had filial piety since my previous life. Even now, I don't commit
any mistakes that would affect
my parents. That means whatever I do, I always focus on how to prevent
my
parents from being affected, how to make them
proud in front of everyone. My
heart has said that
no one is allowed to have the right or the power to do anything.  The idea of
disrespecting one's parents is something that Tâm Chế Hàn Quán has
achieved, and Tâm Chế Hàn Quán has done just that,
dear fellow practitioners. And that is the
greatest happiness in
life. The greatest happiness
for Tâm Chế Hàn Quán is not having money.
Tâm Chế Hàn Quán has never placed money
or anything else in the purpose of
his life. He always does
something to make his parents
happy. If his parents see him, even if they
see him in the Laotian realm, they will always
feel joyful, dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, for Tâm Chế Hàn Quán, his
parents have never died, never
passed away. Because all his actions
now are focused on bringing
peace and happiness to his parents, Tâm Chế Hàn
Quán has no concept of his parents being
gone. A child in this world who has
the concept of their parents being gone
cannot live morally with their siblings,
cannot be responsible to everyone,
and cannot love everyone, dear fellow
practitioners. And Tâm Chế Hàn Quán
affirms that those with filial piety are
very easy to love and very easy to forgive, is
n't that right?  It's
very easy for you, dear fellow practitioners, to do good deeds. It's very
easy for you, dear fellow practitioners, and a person with
filial piety will enjoy happiness
in their heart. In their heart, there is no
comparison, dear fellow practitioners. They don't compare
their living circumstances with those of
others, they don't
resent their parents' happiness, they don't compare, they don't resent, they don't envy. They cultivate
filial piety,
making their parents
happy, they don't envy, dear fellow practitioners.
Always yielding, always improving
oneself to have a good life, the mind
reflecting on the
benefits when we direct our hearts towards our
parents. When we were young, at that
time, many of
our peers tended to have relationships,
and the mind reflecting on the benefits was also there.
At that time, we already had
families, and
the mind reflecting on the benefits
was simply: if
we work, we eat.  Having an affair like
that brings shame to
my parents, and they criticize me. Do you, dear fellow practitioners, see how filial piety
benefits us? It helps
us maintain family happiness and
become a
virtuous person, doesn't it? It's
very beneficial, so
parents are our fields of merit.
If we focus our hearts on our
parents, we will only do
good deeds, because doing good deeds brings us blessings,
right, dear fellow
practitioners? That's why we say parents are the fields of
merit for their children. If we
only think about repaying our parents' kindness,
we must serve them. And serving our parents
means making them peaceful and happy, right? If something makes our parents unhappy, we won't
do it. If something makes our parents unstable, we won't do it, right, dear fellow practitioners? If
something doesn't bring happiness to our
parents, we won't do it. Even those who
renounce worldly life, like our Buddha Shakyamuni, in his
last life, he renounced worldly life.
Even though at that time...  My father fainted and I
mourned for seven days, but that was
only temporary. The
later results were that he attained Arhatship,
and that very passing
brought King Suddhodana to enlightenment. Isn't that what
brings happiness to my father? The
fleeting moment of crying for
days is just a
temporary thing, dear fellow practitioners. Therefore, for
those
who aspire to become monks and nuns but are hesitant about causing
their parents sadness, tears, and suffering,
we must
understand that it's just a fleeting moment, very
light, dear fellow practitioners. Because the
ultimate result for our parents is the highest, dear fellow
practitioners, isn't it?
And if we don't become monks and nuns
but remain in the world,
creating karma alongside our parents is like clinging to their
legs and carrying them down when they are already exhausted, is
n't it? Because while our parents are in this world,
we still have to worry about ourselves and our livelihoods, and
sometimes they have to do
other things.  No, dear fellow practitioners, for example,
today I see my child is tired, or I see my child
coming home from work and having to prepare some
chickens or something like that. Isn't that like
dragging my parents down? It's not like you, dear
fellow practitioners, are dragging your parents down there. So, if
we understand this clearly, then, dear fellow
practitioners, today I, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan, would like to read to you a
letter written by my father, Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan. When he knew he was
about to die, my father, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
was alone and had two wives. One
wife was in Kim Thac village and had no children.
So, when the first wife had no children, my father, Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan, married her and they had five siblings.
When the first wife passed away in the village, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan
returned to perform the funeral rites according to
Buddhist customs and
took care of her, who was very ill. Tam Chieu Hoan Quan
still tells you all, dear fellow practitioners,
that after some time, my
father fell ill,
so his siblings brought him to Quang Ninh
to stay here.  My father passed away out here.
So, this letter from my father reads like this: I, Tam Che
Quan, would like to share this with all
fellow practitioners, and I also
hope that all fellow practitioners will cherish the
feelings
of their parents. The love of one's parents is incredibly
precious; it nurtured and
helped one grow.
Tam Che Han Quan, after reading
this, feels my body is about to return
to dust. I have
written these
last wishes: to have a peaceful and
tranquil life. I must thank and acknowledge
that it was my family, my wife and children, who created it for me.
Thank you, my homeland and village, for giving me a
joyful life. I have
no regrets about
life and no lingering sorrow. My
only sorrow is for Mrs.
Vinh. I have caused her so much
hardship, both physically and mentally, and I cannot
repay her. Mrs. Vinh is my
second mother, the mother who gave birth to me.
I have said everything I needed to say. The
only last thing is that after
I leave this life, my body will be
cremated and wrapped in a shroud.  My brother
and sister Yen took the ashes to Bai Chay Ferry Terminal and scattered them
into the sea by motorbike. My funeral should not be noisy or
expensive; the simpler and more concise, the better.
I hope my family, wife, children, and relatives
will pay attention to my last wish and
not cause any obstruction. Kim Thap,
November 9,
2015 (September 28, Year of the Goat).
Signed: Pham Van Thuong.
Respectfully, dear fellow devotees, my father, Tam Chieu
Hoan Quan, lived a life of great care for his parents.
When his
parents passed away, he took
care of all the graves,
almost every year he would renovate them.
He was very devoted to filial piety, performing all the rituals and offerings.
Therefore, he often said
that he had no regrets about his parents and ancestors;
he had done everything he could to
build the graves. When Tam Chieu Hoan Quan
learned about Buddhism and the practice of praying
for the souls of his ancestors, he also did so.
Therefore, my father, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
was a...  My
father, Tâm Chú Hoàn Quán, was a filial son who learned the way of life from his parents. He and his mother, Tâm Chú Hoàn Quán,
valued love and righteousness, not
money, dear fellow practitioners.
He knew about repairing radios
from a young age. Living with him, I
witnessed many people in the office and
village who, back then, had a radio—just a tiny little
radio, a tiny radio—
couldn't even afford one. If a
house had a small radio and a
small speaker, he would
go without
food and through the night to repair it for them. He did
n't get money for the
repairs. He lived a very kind and compassionate life,
sharing everything with everyone. He lived a very
fulfilling and responsible life, showing
great kindness to his neighbors and relatives. My
mother, Tâm Chú Hoàn Quán, was also very kind and
compassionate to her neighbors,
never letting them get angry, forgiving them a lot. My
father and mother, Tâm Chú Hoàn Quán,
shared the same philosophy in raising their children. He
often taught them...  It's like
this: Even torn paper must keep its edges,
meaning no matter how poor you are, you
must maintain your virtue and moral character.
My grandmother used to say, "Eat
too much and it's ruined," meaning that even a bite of food that
goes down your throat will be
ruined. So you have to eat in a way that the
food is
clean, you can't take it from
others, you have to share
it, and have a compassionate heart, sharing
the joy together. That's the kind of education I received from a young age,
that kind of way of life. My
grandmother had it because she worked outside,
in Quang Ninh. Back in her hometown, she was
poorer, but she always saved
things to bring back home as
gifts. Here, there's fish sauce and fish, lots of it, but
back home, there isn't.
She did the same with her neighbors. For example, if she bought
a big fish, she'd share it with
everyone.
If she bought squid, she'd
share it with the whole neighborhood, saying, "
Eat for fun, share for fun, and have a compassionate
heart." She never
listened to her parents and spoke ill of others.
My dear friend, I don't speak ill of
others. That's the nature of my parents, so I had a
very happy life and a
happy childhood. I
never heard any arguments about
money or malicious gossip because there was no
money involved. It was just
words of encouragement for their children. My father
and mother
often said, "Looking up, you're not as
good as anyone; looking down, there are many people you're not as good as."
Therefore, this kind of life
is enough for me, and I strive to improve according to
my abilities. That is, looking up, I'm
not as good as anyone, but looking down, I'm
much better off than many others. So, I
shouldn't let that lead to evil thoughts and
greed. Many people
suffer more than me, and yet my
family is also poor. Isn't that a
very precious teaching,
and a mind of gratitude is very important. I should
also use that as a guide in
my life. Therefore, dear fellow practitioners, you should cultivate a
mind of gratitude towards your
parents. As a child, you should
only remember the kindness of your parents in raising you.
Don't think about those whose
parents weren't
good, and don't dwell on your parents' mistakes. Those mistakes of your
parents don't affect the
effort they put into raising you. Dear fellow practitioners, if your
parents have mistakes and suffer, you must love them and
do everything you can to help them
progress in their hearts towards the Three Jewels, abandon evil, and do good to repay their kindness.
Isn't that right, dear fellow practitioners?  "
If parents do evil,
they will have suffered enough, won't they,
dear fellow practitioners?" The True Heart Contemplation
reiterates: "Even if parents do evil, even if mother works in a
dirty profession, even if father works in an
extremely wicked and unwholesome profession,
we should only feel compassion and not blame. Do you
understand this point, dear fellow practitioners? We should only feel
compassion and not blame, because the debt of
gratitude for raising us has no unit that
we can demand or repay with equal or equal contributions. The
True Heart Contemplation has already shared this point. No matter
how we repay our parents,
it will never equal
a fraction of that debt because
we did not give birth to them, right,
dear fellow practitioners? Therefore, we cannot
repay it with anything.
We can only repay that debt of
gratitude by helping our parents enter the
Buddhist path, so that they may
abandon evil and do good, and find happiness and peace.
That is
our duty to our parents in this life, to our parents in
the past, and to our parents of countless lifetimes."  After
being born as human beings, we also do
this, don't we, dear fellow practitioners? We
don't do anything else besides
this, dear fellow practitioners. From this, countless good deeds will
arise. If a child
is filial, won't that generate countless good deeds,
dear fellow practitioners? Always
thinking of parents, always wishing
for their peace and happiness, would
n't that generate countless good deeds? That's why countless good deeds are
born from filial piety, from
this virtue of filial piety, because filial piety is the virtue of
unconditional service. Anything that involves
unconditional service in good
deeds will generate countless good deeds.
But if we do good deeds
with conditions, then that is not called a
good deed, right? For example, if I do
this good deed so that you will give me something, then when
you cannot fulfill
that request, I will be evil, so that
good deed is not complete. Only the good deed
of filial piety is the most complete, dear fellow practitioners,
because in filial piety is
unconditional service.  Therefore, one should
not demand anything in return, so that
good deeds will be complete.
All good deeds are born from filial piety.
Have you understood, esteemed fellow practitioners?
All good deeds must be born from filial piety;
outside of filial piety, no
good deeds can be found. Because
all service outside of filial piety is
conditional service,
and conditional service
cannot be perfect. Is
n't that right,
esteemed fellow practitioners? Only unconditional service is truly good. Serving only out of
gratitude, wanting those who have been kind to you to be
safe, happy, and joyful—that is true, perfect, and
complete service. Isn't that right, esteemed fellow practitioners?
Therefore, saying that filial piety gives rise to countless good deeds is
also true, esteemed fellow practitioners.
Respectfully, esteemed fellow practitioners, regarding the part where the father
reflects on the situation, saying, "I hope my
family, wife, children, and
relatives of the Mac family will pay attention to
my last wish and not hinder
anything," that
is the
fear that relatives will obstruct the
funeral arrangements for my grandfather according to Buddhist teachings.
Dear fellow practitioners,
before the funeral of my mother, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
there were relatives of my mother who came to
perform the funeral rites
for her according to Buddhist principles. Initially, some
relatives of my mother caused
difficulties. Therefore, at my
father's funeral, he said that if he died, he only
wished for his wife and children, meaning only his
mother, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan, and his wife, children,
siblings, and relatives to remain. They shouldn't cause any trouble.
Because as mentioned above, the offerings and the
ashes were given by Anh Van and Chi Yen. Anh Van
is his only son, and Chi Yen
is Tam Chieu Hoan Quan because his younger brother, Van,
has already followed
Tam Chieu Hoan Quan. Therefore,
this is the meaning of my father's funeral: it must be done
according to Buddhist principles. Dear fellow practitioners, if we
live filially to our parents, in the end, our
parents will follow us. When my
parents were asked
where they would go after death, they all said, "I will follow Chieu Hoan Quan."
The three of them
said the same thing until close to death. When the fellow practitioners
came up to him and his wife, they all asked the same question,
and he and his wife replied, "Go die following Miss
Yen. Going with me is much better."
Once you enter the Buddha's teachings, you
are merely a name. The true
essence is the Three Jewels, dear fellow practitioners. That is
why, with a pure and tranquil mind, I sincerely hope that you, dear fellow
practitioners, will strive to be a refuge for your
parents. Therefore, when those who
leave home, their parents must follow them.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, I, with a pure and tranquil
mind,
wrote this letter to leave
to my wife and children, and here I am carrying all my heart. I
am a very full-hearted person in
this life. I leave with a grateful and thankful heart
to all the dear fellow practitioners. Thank you to my
family, my wife and children, thank you to my homeland and
village for giving me a happy life.
Do you see? I leave with a grateful
heart, and therefore I am blessed,
right, dear fellow practitioners? There is no anger,
no resentment.  There is nothing to regret, nothing
to complain about,
complete peace and tranquility. The mind of the
Hoan Quan also hopes that all the parents
of the esteemed fellow practitioners will also experience
such joy and peace.
This is the goal that the mind of the Hoan Quan
aims for. When the mind of the Hoan Quan
reads the letter from the father of the mind of the Hoan Quan, he
shares with the esteemed fellow
practitioners: "I hope that I will bring
joy to my parents." The mind of the Hoan
Quan would like to share another part: "If we
want to ensure this continued peace and happiness for our parents in the afterlife,
what should we do? The esteemed fellow practitioners should
remember the kindness and nurturing of their parents.
In this way, we will focus on
filial piety, and in the next life,
we will continue to repay that kindness. Is
n't that happiness, esteemed fellow practitioners? Therefore,
we must never abandon the mind of
filial piety. We
must live with filial piety, and filial piety
will give us...  We are happy for
our peace, dear fellow practitioners. During the Vu
Lan season, the Heart of the Lord, Hoan Quan, would like to share
with you, dear fellow practitioners, things related
to parents. Parents are our childhood
in this life, our happiness
in this life; our parents are
our childhood in the next life,
our happiness in the next life; our parents are
our childhood for eternity, for countless lifetimes, dear fellow practitioners. Dear fellow practitioners, every
year during the Vu Lan season,
our Golden Chrysanthemum Club organizes a gratitude ceremony. This
is to express gratitude to our Master and the monks, and to
give gifts to fellow practitioners in
our community who are over 70 years old but
still diligently
practicing. This is our gratitude for the Dharma and our
diligent practice, dear fellow practitioners.
We also have a program to give gifts
to the parents of Buddhist followers aged 80 and
above. This is the
filial piety that our club practices
together,
but due to the COVID-19 pandemic this year,
we were unable to hold
that ceremony. The Heart of the Lord, Hoan Quan, along with
some other Buddhists...  The club will
only be able to offer gifts of gratitude to
the master and the monks. We cannot express
gratitude to the Buddhist followers and
their parents this year
due to social distancing measures
at the temple, nor can
the club practice it. Therefore, the
Dharma leaders
and the temple's management board would like to
send a message to the
elderly Buddhist followers and their
parents
aged 80 and above.
We apologize to you all this year
because of the general pandemic situation.
We must maintain a spirit of
disease prevention. Let us dedicate
our filial piety to
this Dharma realm, to increase the
power of filial devotion, to pray for the
early eradication of the pandemic, and to the enlightenment of
those afflicted by evil spirits, to let go of their
resentments and karmic ties, and to rely
on the Buddha's teachings to practice together.
Once again, I, the Dharma leader,
wish you and your
families a peaceful Vu Lan season.  We offer our best wishes and pray that
all our parents will always
be healthy and that
all our parents in the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club will develop auspicious
karmic connections. Those who have taken
refuge in the Three Jewels
will be diligent; those who have
not yet taken refuge will develop the karmic connections to take refuge in the Three Jewels. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. At
this time, we invite all our esteemed fellow practitioners to
join hands and
dedicate this merit to
all disciples and sentient beings, that they may all attain
Buddhahood.
[Music]
Golden chrysanthemums entwined with wealth. Even pigs will
not leave the golden chrysanthemum. Pure and noble, even pigs will not leave the Golden Chrysanthemum Club. The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the club of a hundred practitioners, even if there are
difficulties, even if there are hardships, it will not be difficult. Even if there
are difficulties, it
will be overcome. The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the club of joyful practice of the Six Harmonies of
Buddhism. The Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
club of joyful practice of the Six Harmonies of Buddhism. Six
flowers, one body, one flower, two mouths, one flower,
three minds in harmony.  Reviewing the four realms of
harmonious practice, the five realms of harmonious liberation, the six realms of liberation, the
flower of peace and joy,
wherever there is harmony, there is peace and joy, wherever there is the six realms of
liberation, there is peace and joy. [Music] of liberation, the Golden
Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, practicing the Buddha's Dharma, the six realms of liberation, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, together fulfilling our duties, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, together cultivating the Bodhi
Mind, protecting the Three Jewels, spreading the
Buddha's teachings throughout the
world, the Golden Chrysanthemum, the noble gentleman, the flower of
liberation, the golden offering club, practicing to seek
liberation, wishing to help everyone, the Golden
Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, practicing to seek liberation, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, the joyful club, the
joyful club, the
[music]
joyful club, offering and being
Buddhist practitioners at Ba
Vang Pagoda, always together in love
to pray for freedom from
suffering, always together in
faith to
pray for freedom from suffering,
[music]
Golden Chrysanthemum, entwined with riches,
even pigs cannot leave, the Golden Chrysanthemum, the
Pure and Noble, even pigs cannot leave.  The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a club dedicated to
cultivating wealth and prosperity, even if it's difficult, it's not difficult,
even if it's difficult, it will be overcome. The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a club of joyful practice of
Buddhist Six Harmonies, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a
club of joyful practice of Buddhist Six Harmonies, one
body, one flower, two mouths, one flower, three minds,
harmony, four realms, harmony, five understandings, harmony,
six
words, harmony,
where there is
six harmony, there is joy, where there is
liberation, where there is liberation, the Golden
Chrysanthemum Club, a club of
joyful practice of Buddhist Six Harmonies, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a club of
joyful practice, together doing our part, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a club of joyful practice, together cultivating the Pure Heart, together cultivating the Pure Heart, together cultivating the Pure Heart, cultivating the Pure
Heart, seeking
liberation, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
club  The joyful Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club,
is a Buddhist worship club and practitioners
at Ba
Vang Pagoda always together in love
to pray for freedom from suffering,
always together in faith
to
pray for
freedom from pain and suffering.
[Music]
Golden chrysanthemum entwined with wealth, even a pig will
not leave the golden chrysanthemum. Thanh Cao,
even if there is a pig, it is not the
color. The Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the club of a hundred
practitioners, wealthy, difficult, difficult, V is not difficult, L is
not difficult, the oil furnace has a C area, we will overcome it. The Golden Chrysanthemum
Club, the joyful club, practicing the Six Harmonies of
Buddhism. The golden worship club, the
joyful club, practicing the Six Harmonies
of Buddhism. One body, Harmony, Two mouths, Three minds, Harmony, Four realms, Harmony, Five knowledge, Six benefits, Where there is Six Harmonies, there is joy. Where there is Six Harmonies, there is liberation. [Music] Escape, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, practicing the
Six Harmonies of Buddhism. The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, doing our
duty together. The Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, practicing together.  Together we
[music]
Cultivating Bodhi Mind, protecting the Three Jewels,
spreading Buddhist teachings throughout the world
[music]
Golden chrysanthemums entwined from the color of
liberation Golden chrysanthemum club Practicing for
liberation, helping everyone Golden chrysanthemum club Peaceful club Cultivating the mind, seeking
liberation Golden chrysanthemum club
Peaceful club Golden chrysanthemum club
Peaceful club Offering and being
Buddhist practitioners at Ba
Vang Temple Always together in love
to pray for
compassion Always together in faith
to
pray for
freedom from suffering
[music]
K
[Applause]
[music]